Hello and welcome to another student Questions and Sida Lecture.
Now this question is from a Latin Amat asks how to protect different cells with different
protection levels on the same worksheet.
Now the object of the exercise is that on that wants to create a spreadsheet that he can
pass out to different users.
But he doesn't want them to be able to change the order of the columns,
mess up the titles or,
more importantly or equally as importantly,
mess up the formulas.
All we want them to be able to access are the cells that they should be working in.
Now you can download this file from this particular lecturer and you'll find out that we
have sheet one,
which is this one Here.
We have a paste into this workbook and there's a subroutine that your pace into the
workbook open.
Andi this which has to subroutines the validate me on the protect me or something like that
that protect me subroutine,
which we're gonna wish through now.
So here we have it.
This is the This is the word book that I've recreated from an image posted in the Q and A
So what?
We have.
I'm just using the ROK and tamping over and you see that we can select all these cells.
But if I had the upper Okay,
I cannot go up and they think the Dan air.
Okay,
I cannot go down.
I can only go across so I can use all of these cells until I get here.
And then when they hit the arrow key,
it's going to skip over the formula and the game.
Let me into stuff in here until I get here and again,
it's going to force me over the formula,
so the formula tabs are going to be protected.
So let's take a look at the code.
Firstly,
this workbook,
I'm just going to close those for a second so you can seal the code.
What we have here is a It's just a workbook.
Open.
We have one variable,
which is just gonna hold the row number of the first row toe lock.
So let me just strengthen it so you can see it a bit better.
Okay,
so what we have is un protect the active sheet.
Obviously,
this is a protected sheet,
so active sheet that's un protect password equals password So this can obviously be
whatever you want it today.
No,
What we need to do is remove any locked percent protection from the first blank row.
You'll know that if you right,
click this and choose this is protected.
So that's not gonna work.
Let me just briefly on protecting the sheet review on Protect Sheet password.
And now we're going to find out if I can type.
There you go,
right click format cells.
Andi,
this is the box I'm talking about here.
This is the box that we want unchecked.
So let's go back to the code.
So here,
active sheets us on protect password equals password that's going on.
Protect hale sheet Now remove any locked protection from the first blank row.
That's this road immediately here,
Row five and to get to row.
If I were going to say say range a 1,048,576 because this is Excel 2013 it's exactly the
same in 2016 dot end Excel up going to say goes right the way up to the top to hear offset
by one which is going to bring this down to here then we're going to say that entire row
dot locked equals false,
and that's going to remove all those little ticks that we just looked at.
Now where we need to do is find the second blank row,
which is rose six.
So x,
the variable here is gonna be ranged one million odd up,
offset by two.
So we're gonna cut to a four and down to a six,
so x will be worth six.
Then we're gonna lock everything from a six down to Q 1,048,576 dot locked equals.
True,
that's going to put a little tick in that box now because we know dealing middle line six.
Where we actually want to do is lock the formulas online five.
So we're going to say range the formulas Aaron,
K and P,
by the way.
So formula at its OK X minus one.
So six minus one is five.
So this is going to be K five dot locked equal stream and exactly the same with P.
And that is gonna look the formulas on the line that we want the users to enter into.
Okay.
And the last thing we need to do is go to the first cell that we want the user to populate
.
So again,
we're going to go right to the bottom of the sheet up,
offset by one and select.
And that's gonna put our cell here on finally on workbook open.
We're gonna password protect now,
whatever options you have,
any you can just record a macro.
Andi,
it will tell you what the different variables should bay.
So that is how we lock this thing when the workbook opens.
With this particular piece of code here.
Now I'm losing my voice to apologize.
So let's have a look at the other bits of code.
The valuation code.
So Project Explorer,
Module one.
Now let me close that.
Now all of this code that that will be locked obviously a lonely bell to pick this will be
tied to this validate me button.
So once the uses ended,
something fat less.
Enter something in here and we go on,
let's say hello.
I'm excellently done this for three cells,
but you'll get the picture in just a second.
Sago.
We got three bits a day,
so we got some gobbledygook in there.
Hello,
in there and number in there.
Now you can see that gobbledygook in here.
This is a data validation from list.
So the user is only gonna be able to pick something from the list.
And if you need to add that list in code,
you can easily add it into this module.
Now,
this is obviously going to fail because hello isn't a date.
And neither is hello,
a number.
So what we have in the days of validation,
this one up here is a very simple thing.
We have an error check here variable called aero Check.
And every time we find an era,
it's going to increase by one.
We're gonna use that at the end to tell the user if they made any mistakes.
So again,
what we're going to do will step through this.
We have unprotected the sheet using the password password.
We're going to go to the first populate herbal cell.
That's the one the user me just typed into by going to the bottom of sheet all the way up
on going there.
So now we're in this cell now.
Remove any error highlights if there are any which will have shortly this will remove them
and set them all back to know felt.
Now we've got a few things that we can use.
There is no function that I'm aware of where you contest.
If a cell contains text,
you contest if it contains characters on the way to do that is by looking at the length.
So we're going to say if the length of the active cell doesn't equal blank,
then color that cell in red active cell die interior duck collect equals V be read on.
Increase our error check by one.
So air attack equals air check plus one F eight.
There is something in that cell,
so it's perfectly happy our first test is being passed on again.
This is just in column May so repeat this for any columns with text.
Check the length so into our second test.
Now there is a built in function in VB.
A little edgy check.
If something is a date,
the active seldom upset.
No rose.
One column which is here.
If that value is not a date,
so is date equals false.
Then do this.
So when we hit F eight Hello isn't a date,
so never gonna color in that cell there.
So we're going to say active cell offset one over interior decor equals for you.
Be red and you can see that that's going to read.
Now we're going to increase our every check by one.
So Aerotek started at 00 equals zero plus one.
We now have an error.
Now,
the next thing is to check for a numeric.
let me just move over a little bit.
There's are numeric.
So never gonna check f column f if this is a numeric value.
So again,
if is numeric active cell offset five Because we're here.
12345 If that equals false,
that is,
It's not a numeric performed this test here.
So active cell offset 123450.5 interior color equals red,
so you can see that that's going red.
A nella aerotek is worth two.
So now we have.
If the aerotek doesn't equal zero,
that is.
Errors were found that sound validation display a message box that says,
please check your inputs and correct any errors.
So lets his f eight.
So there we go.
Please check your inputs and correct any errors in red.
So the user knows they have to go back.
And also the song just gonna hit.
Okay,
Then we're gonna lock the the the We're gonna lock the sheet again.
Password protected on We're gonna end.
So that's the end of the program.
That's how we validate it.
No,
if we say 20 foot,
say Christmas 21st the 25th of the 12 2017 and 123 on,
obviously you'll need to repeat all of these different checks for each of the columns on.
Then we re run the code.
We can see that column a is still text.
That's good column B is a date,
so we've moved straight over that.
On column F is also is numeric side evaluates to true.
So now our area check is worth zero.
So we're going to completely bypass that message,
and we're going to come down to the bottom here and call Protect me.
Now Protect me is just a variation of the code we looked at on workbook open.
We're going to say the entire road that we're currently on row five locket because once the
user is entered it and it's being validated,
then we want it to be locked.
They're obviously Here is where you can add in your formulas to Colin,
K and P.
We're in a so offset 10 takes us to K on Offset 15 takes us to pee and you can do your
formula.
Whatever it is,
they're So that's where you had your formulas.
So act yourself.
That entire row dot locked equals troop locks the entire room.
We want to unlock everything in the row below on.
We want to do exactly the same.
Thing is we did when we opened the workbook.
We're going to go to the bottom of the sheet,
go up offset by two,
because now we want the user to be able to access row six,
but nothing from seven.
And Bill Oh,
we're going to step through.
We're going to say that.
So a to J.
Which is going to take us all the way down.
We're gonna look OK,
We're gonna lock P and then we want to go to the first populate herbal cell that the user
can have,
which is now at rose six.
I hope my voice holds out Florist on.
Then we're going to protect the sheet again.
N sub and sub.
So now if we go up here,
we'll find that become,
actually,
select any of the cells.
Except for these and again,
when we tab over,
we'll get to formula on.
We wont bearable to select it.
Now what I'm gonna do for a second close safe on when I reopen that book when it finishes
saving,
There we go.
Um,
when I reopen that workbook that should take a straight down to row six but not allow us to
pick anything else.
Hopefully,
that made a lot of sense.
Is always you condemn,
blurred this file from this lecture on,
have a play around with code,
and I hope that helps is always If you have any questions,
just drop her a note into the Q and A,
and I'll be happy to get back to you.
Have a great day.